>> Lukas Ruebbelke: This next module
is going to be a little tricky.
And I would say, out of ngrx, dealing with
asynchronous operations is quite
possibly the most complicated piece.
And so, let me earmark or even put,
maybe, a line in the sand or a flag post,
is that at this point, we understand or
we have covered the basic
fundamental shape of Redux in NgRx.
We understand how to set up the store,
through the reducer around it.
We understand actions,
strongly typed actions,
how to simplify your reducer with
entity and how to do basic selectors.
And so at this point,
where I'm like, this is amazing,
like I'm all in,
the very next question that I had is well,
okay, what if i need to actually
call the server and do something?
And so this is where effects come in, so
this is, I think the first challenge
is understanding Redux in that shape.
The next piece is, so,
safe flows down and events flow up.
The next, very next question I had is,
well, what if I need to do
something that's asynchronous?
I need to call a server or something.
So, as an event flows up,
we use an effect as middleware.
To capture that operation to handle it and
then delegate control back into NgRx.
And so, when I talk about effects
is that comes from side effects,
and is in that creates a side effect,
and it is nothing more than
middleware that sits in between
your application and the reducer.
And so, you'll register it,
just like the store.
But, and
it will listen to events the same way.
The difference is that,
as actions are fired, typically,
you'll split your actions into half.
Or, I think of it as splitting
to an initiation kind of action,
like an event trigger, and
then like an event completion.
And so some stuff will go right into
the reducer, and that's totally fine.
But if you need to have some side
effect or some asynchronous thing,
is that instead of having for
instance, if we go to our actions,
where we have like low projects,
AddProject that day, DeleteProject.
Well now we split this into
kind of incoming action or
an incoming event and an outgoing event.
So what I'll do is.
We'll just break, I'm gonna build
up two and then we'll kind of go,
we'll see, maybe I'll do
a little bit more or maybe not.
So, if we have LoadProjects,
this is the command.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Then
we could do ProjectsLoaded.
And so this would be the completion.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So Projects, as you
can see here that we're just kind of.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Flipping this around.
So AddProject would be.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: ProjectAdded.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Data Added.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Does it make sense so
far?
Yep, okay?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
so, we'll do these two and
then we may just paste the rest in for
time.
Yes?
>> Student 1: So,
what's the point of clarification?
We have these two actions and
one of them is operated on by middleware?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Mm-hm.
>> Student 1: Do all of the actions also
go all the way through the reducer, or
the middleware is handling something
that's sub dev, does that makes sense?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So I believe, and this
is something I would probably clarify,
that all middleware, so all effects and
all reducers have the opportunity
to respond to all actions.
As a result, you separate that by
having very specific action types.
And so, I have always
operated under the assumption
that everything responds to everything, as
a result, how you keep that from happening
is you are very precise about
the actions that you trigger.
So that is an excellent question.
And I actually believe, one of my
friends may have gotten burnt by that.
He was expecting it to actually
stop into the effect and
he had it listing on the reducer.
And I think it was hitting both places.
>> Student 2: They were both
operating on that same action.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yep, yep.
And so
this is something I would
have to confirm but.
And I must be willing to put at least
a red bull on that, they all listen to it.
Which is why, you separate these
in terms of load projects.
This will get captured by the effect, and
then when the operation is completed,
then it dispatches this one.
Or the projects loaded, so, just think of
it as kind of command and then completion.
Actually, that is how I
would probably reference
this from now on unless you have
a kind of the initial command,
then you have a completion
event on the back side of it.
So from here, let's create,
our action objects for
this, so ProjectsLoaded implements Action,
readonly type.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Now what's interesting
here is LoadProject, LoadProjects rather,
willl no longer have a payload,
because it's just a trigger event.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: But, on the other
hand, ProjectsLoaded will have.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Which is going to
be an array of projects, like cell.
And if we go down here, this,
on the other hand, will be,
will also take a pay load and
then on both cases.
Let's just send one in.
Something will happen at the server.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
then you want to return that.
And this will may vary
depending on your API.
But ProjectAdded, here we go.
So just created the events.
And then what.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: ProjectLoaded.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: ProjectAdded.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: This is plural.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: There we go.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Now
what we're going to do,
is we're going to create our effect.
Now a bit of, kind of a helpful
snippet here, cuz if we go down.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: To actions, there is,
I've kind of fleshed out the basic
structure of this, just because there
is a lot that is going on here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So in effects,
we'll just paste this in, and
basically what we're doing is, we're
importing project state from the reducer.
Let me see here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yeah,
we'll get to that in just a second.
So ProjectsEffects, and
it's going to take a couple parameters.
We're injecting a couple things.
So one, its actions, data persistence,
and I'll explain what that is in a moment,
and projects service.
And so obviously, if we're going to do
an asynchronous callback to the server,
then we need the project
service to handle that for us.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so
let's define our first effect.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
we'll call this loadProjects, like so.
And, we're going to use data
persistence to do this.
And so this is a slight variation of
kind of a standard effect sequence.
But there's a good reason for this.
So, we'll go this data persistence fetch.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And we're going to go
ProjectActionTypes.
And so notice,
I'm passing in well the very first
parameter is the action type,
and then from here we have.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: An object
that's going to handle or
respond to this action,
which has two kind of,
there may be additional properties
you could put on this object.
What we care about is run and onerror.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So, I'm just going
to leave these as empty functions for
just a moment.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let me go ahead and
do one more for addProjects.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: AddProject.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And from here,
I think we have this fetch up, so
we can do LoadProjects and addProjects.
The difference is that on one, we're
going to do a fetch, and the other one,
we're going to do rather, an optimistic
update but a pessimistic update.
I'll break this down onto another line,
just so
this is a little easier to read
just because the font's pretty big.
All right.